- [Gordon] Tonight on Hotel
Hell, I'm in Pipestone,
Minnesota, trying to
save a Midwestern hotel
from two spoiled sisters,
who are clueless owners.
Did you stay here before you bought it?
- Once.
- Once?
- They don't know what they're doing.
I do not think Vanda and Rina
should be running a hotel at all.
- This is what we deal with.
- [Gordon] Every day is a new
battle between the owners,
Vanda and Rina, and their staff.
- Kill me, kill me, kill me.
- Stuck in the middle of it
all, the general manager,
is struggling to hold the place together.
There is some much bitterness.
- People are about to explode.
- [Gordon] These girls
aren't running a business,
they're running a
business into the ground.
- If you were here for
two seconds, you'd know
I've been running my ass
off for three fucking days.
- [Gordon] Do daddy's little
girls have it in them,
to turn this place around?
(Rina sobbing)
- I want this so bad.
- [Gordon] Or am I already too late?
- I can't do this.
- It feels like I'm in a
woman's fucking prison.
- I'm fucking done, I'm fucking done.
You stupid bitch.
(heavy rock music)
(spider clattering)
(fire igniting)
(doors clanging shut)
(tiger roaring)
(electrical interference)
- At the heart of Pipestone, Minnesota,
stands the historic
Calumet Inn, built in 1887.
Calumet is a native American
word for peace pipe.
But sadly, peace is
something in short supply
at the Calumet Inn.
The hotel is owned by sisters,
Rina and Vanda Smrkovski.
Nine months ago, their father Jim,
or daddy as they call him,
purchased the hotel for the sisters.
- I'm not sure that Rina and Vanda realise
how privileged they are.
- Just because we dress nice,
doesn't mean we're spoiled.
- They are definitely
a little bit spoiled.
- [Gordon] Rina's not
just a little bit spoiled,
she's also a little bit of a crybaby.
- There's just too much
trash talking around here,
and I can't work with people like that.
I'm so sick of always being judged.
- You're going to have
to come down to earth.
(Rina sobbing)
- God, I cry a lot, now
what was I crying about?
I don't even know.
- [Gordon] After owning the
hotel for just six weeks,
Rina found working a bit much.
So she took the weekend off in
Minneapolis, 200 miles away,
and she didn't return for three months.
While she was away, the
hotel was left at the mercy
of her younger sister, Vanda.
Vanda considers herself very hardworking.
Although she doesn't get out of bed
until three o'clock every afternoon,
leaving the hotel understaffed.
- A lot of times, I feel
like people come to work
just to make tips and for their paycheck.
And they're not necessarily here
to take care of this historic artefact.
- I apologise again, I'm sorry.
- Thank you very much.
- I do not think Vanda and Rina
should be running a hotel at all,
because they don't know
what they're doing,
and they don't care about anybody.
- [Gordon] Despite having
zero hospitality experience...
- Do you know how to use this?
- [Gordon] Vanda and Rina
think they know best.
So they strip the general manager
of all her management duties.
- Before Rina and Vanda got here,
I was the general manager of the Calumet.
And now I'm a front desk
person and a waitress,
that's what I am.
I've got the chicken pita wrap.
- [Client] Right here.
- [Gordon] With the girls in charge,
things at the hotel have
rapidly gone down hill.
- Oh, that's mouldy.
- Oh, man.
- Look at this!
How are your allergies doing?
- They're a little bit rough.
- Do you need your inhaler?
- [Gordon] With almost
no guests coming in,
Vanda and Rina's parents have been forced
to leave their family home in Minneapolis,
and move into the hotel,
alongside their daughters,
in a desperate attempt to cut the costs
and keep the doors open.
- I work seven days a week.
I miss my home very much.
- [Gordon] If the situation
doesn't change fast
the staff will all lose their jobs.
- I can't do this.
This is real life, this is people's jobs.
This isn't you playing,
hotel, because you're bored.
- [Gordon] And the hotel
will have to shut its doors forever.
- If Gordon Ramsey cannot help
Rina and Vanda, nobody can.
And the Calumet will close.
- I'm in the middle of Minnesota,
look at this place, it's like Holland.
It is incredibly flat,
windmills everywhere,
but no fucking tulips.
Look at the size of that thing,
the largest peace pipe in the world.
This is it.
Wow, this place is huge.
It may be historic,
but look at that thing.
Okay, this is the
entrance, you kidding me?
This looks like the entrance
to a fucking prison,
not a hotel.
A prison with an ATM, my God.
Hello?
You're kidding me.
Please come in!
I can't believe it, it is so dark in here,
a fucking dungeon.
Hello?
Sod this.
I'm going to go get a light.
There, that is crazy.
Right, maybe it's best I turn around
and fuck off home now.
Hello?
I feel like a goonie.
Hey, you guys?
(tense music)
Ah, wow.
Ooh, hello.
- Hi.
- How are you?
- When I saw Gordon walk
in, I was very scared
because I knew that he was
trying to check into the hotel.
- Are you running this place by yourself?
- Yes, today I am.
- Today you are.
Does anyone work in reception?
- Me.
- Yeah, oh do you, really?
- Yes.
- So you're the server and
you're at the front desk?
- Yes, my name Mandy.
- Mandy, Gordon, nice to see you.
- Nice to see you.
- You're busy.
- Yes.
- Very busy indeed.
But you've got diners to look after,
maybe somebody else should check me in.
- Okay.
I not feel like a proper GM here.
(phone ringing)
- Hi, Mandy.
- Hey, come down and help, please.
I feel like somebody that's
here to cover the extra hours.
However, I do still get to
listen to the complaints.
- I don't know if you know, Mandy,
but there's a bulb missing there.
- Probably.
- Oh.
- Jim likes to take bulbs out of things,
so people can't turn lights on.
- Jim likes to take bulbs?
- Yes, Jim likes to take
bulbs, so take the bulb out.
- This place is a mad house.
- Oh, hello?
- Hi.
- Finally.
- Fine and you.
- And first name is?
- Vanda.
- Pleased to meet you.
- Likewise, Gordon, good to see you.
- I'm Rina.
- Rina, nice to see you.
- Pleased to meet you.
- Sisters?
- Yes.
- And owners?
- If you don't mind me asking,
I mean, you look very young
to be running a hotel.
How old are you?
- I'm 27.
- Wow, baby.
- I'm 32.
- Wow, babies.
And you both run it together?
- Yes.
- So Mandy multitasks, she
does the restaurants...
- She's actually the general manager.
- Wow, general manager, head waitress,
and she looks like a busser.
- I'm not happy with her work.
It's really difficult
to find people who are motivated to work
and who want to live up to our standards.
- What room am I in?
- You are in our best room.
- The melody of love.
Do you hear people
shagging in the next door.
(girls laughing)
No, you must hear something?
Wow, holy mackerel.
Is that mould in there?
- I wouldn't be surprised
if it were mould.
- And where's the wardrobe,
so I can hang my jacket up?
- The wardrobe, right over right there.
- It's kind of hidden behind the microwave
and mouldy refrigerator.
- Jesus.
- I'm feeling really nervous right now.
I know that the room is really cluttered,
but I didn't realise it was that bad.
- Well, at least we have a light bulb.
There's a man that goes round
nicking light bulbs out of the lamps,
Mandy said that he doesn't
want them turned on,
some guy called Jim.
- My father tales light
bulbs out of the lamps?
- He's your father?
- Yeah.
- Mom works in the business as well?
- Our mom kind of goes around
and helps clean up after people's mess.
- Are they owners as well?
- They're investors.
So your parents bought you this place?
- Yes
- The moment we saw this
place, I knew I had to have it,
so I found every single way
possible to convince my daddy.
No matter what I had to
do, I just had to have it.
- I personally think
they could have gotten it
for cheaper and they probably should have
- What do you two do all day,
if mom and dad are hands on,
so what's your role?
- I do the bookkeeping.
I do the front desk in the evening.
There was one day Gordon,
I had to man the dining
room and the front desk.
- Oh, where was big sis?
- I don't know where you were,
I think you were in
Minneapolis or something.
- Minneapolis, what were
you doing back there,
when you just bought a hotel?
- I actually needed some time to be alone
and figure things out.
- So you take two weeks
away, then what happened?
- She wasn't gone for two weeks,
she was gone for three months.
- Three months?
- She was gone for three months
- After being open for six weeks?
I heard your role, what do you do?
- I'm seriously still confused
on what my role is here.
I feel like...
- Shit, what?
- I don't understand...
- You own the place and you
don't know what your role is?
- I feel like a bunch of gas bubbles
are just flying all
over, molecules and atoms
just everywhere right now.
- Did you stay here before you bought it?
- I stayed here, um-
- How many times?
- Once.
- Once?
- You stayed one fucking night-
- Overnight.
- Did you stay in here?
- No, not here, in the
other room down the hall.
- Show me, please.
- This is actually my favourite room.
- Okay, and this is it.
- So we stayed in this room...
- You stayed in this room.
This is even worse than my room.
Pee stains all over the...
disgusting wallpaper,
holes in the wall here.
Why is this hotel in such a state?
- We have a lot of
problems with the staff.
- It's so hard Gordon,
to just repeat myself.
- What are the problems?
- Rudeness, unprofessionalism.
- There is a chronic disease here,
of complaining and bitching.
- So you've got a big
problem with the staff?
- Yes, we do.
You're welcome for the jobs.
You're welcome for the tips.
You're welcome, you're welcome.
- [Gordon] I'm in Pipestone, Minnesota,
in a place run by two spoiled sisters,
whose daddy bought them a hotel.
Is that mould in there?
- I wouldn't be surprised.
- [Gordon] They tell me,
the staff are the biggest problem here...
- It's so hard Gordon
to just repeat myself.
- But I'm not so sure.
- She wasn't gone for two weeks,
she was gone for three months.
- [Gordon] Hopefully, some lunch
will brighten up my disappointing day.
Hello, how are you?
- I'm good, how are you?
- Nice to meet you.
- Nice to meet you, I'm Joselyn.
- Joselyn, nice to see you.
- Nice to meet you.
- How long have you been here, my darling?
- I have been here for two years.
- Two years?
- In June, yeah, it will be two years.
- I'm sorry, two years.
- That's just, yeah.
- And is your father
going to buy you a hotel?
- Never gonna happen.
Even if I was like, please I want it,
just because I'm bored.
Not going to happen.
- Right, what would you recommend?
- Do you want to start
with an appetiser, maybe?
- Yeah, what's the soup of the day?
- Broccoli, cauliflower.
- Yeah, I'll try one of those.
- Okay.
- Entrees, let's go for the fish.
The walleye strip.
- Okay.
- Man, it's a huge menu.
How many's in the kitchen?
- Two.
- Two chefs.
How'd you get this food fresh,
with only two chefs in the kitchen
and a menu with literally
35, 40 dishes on it?
- You don't.
- Does that need rice?
Our menu here is huge.
I wish we could use
better ingredients here.
Vanda and Rina, they don't want to spend.
- I would not spend my money
here at the restaurant.
No, I think the food sucks.
- How are you, Mandy?
- Hi, how are you?
- You're busy, you're
always running around.
- Yeah.
- Amazing.
How long have you been general manager?
- Two years.
- Two years?
No disrespect, you don't
look like a general manager.
- Right, I'm not that anymore.
- Oh.
- Yeah.
- Shit, seriously?
- Seriously.
- Did you have a falling
out with them, because...?
- No.
- No?
- Everybody's incompetent, apparently.
- Right?
- I'm sick of not really
being the general manager.
I kind of feel like I'm being pulled
in all different directions.
I don't really have a say in anything.
- How would you describe the owners?
- Vanda is borderline sociopath.
The other one, I don't know,
I can't describe her,
she's never here, so...
- Wow, I appreciate
your honesty, thank you.
Wow, Mandy seems pissed.
I suppose, if I was
working as hard as she is
and the owners thought the
staff were the problem,
I'd be pissed too.
Thank you.
- This is the broccoli, cauliflower.
- Right.
- I'll get you your drink.
- Thank you, thank you.
- Hmm, it smells burnt.
Ah, that's fucking burnt.
So sorry, taste it, just a small bit.
- Ugh, uh-uh.
- It is absolutely, fucking disgusting.
Does the chef not care?
- Hmm...
- No?
- No.
I don't think the cooks care anymore.
But I feel like a lot of us
have gotten to that point.
- Okay, walleye fish strip.
- [Joselyn] Which isn't
a strip, it's like a ball
- Honestly, how hard is that thing?
- [Joselyn] I've never had
it, because I don't like it.
- Is it fresh or frozen?
- [Joselyn] Frozen,
but it looks like crap,
so I wouldn't eat it.
- Jesus Christ.
(knife hammering)
Now, that's what it takes...
- Yeah!
Yeah, no, disgusting.
I mean, what's wrong with
this place, what's...
- Everything.
- Who's the most assertive
out of the sisters?
- Vanda, because Rina's not here.
- No.
How committed are they
to running the business?
- Don't care.
I think they look at it as,
like well I own it, so we
can do whatever we want.
Sleep till three in the afternoon.
Keep the bar open till
five in the morning.
I mean, how do you respect
somebody who does that?
- Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Can you get me the owners and the chefs?
- Yeah.
- Thank you, darling.
- You're welcome.
- [Narrator] The food here is horrific.
It's as if the chef is
cooking in her sleep.
- Gordon wants to talk to you guys.
- Now you don't need me here, to tell you,
the soup is that disgusting,
that even before anybody
tasting it, it smells burnt.
- This is why we make our own food.
- I don't eat here anymore.
- Unbelievable!
Right now, I've got no idea,
what the hell is going on here.
Have you given up young
lady, do you hate food?
What's going on?
- I used to love my
job, and now I hate it.
- I can see.
What's not working for you?
- The owners.
- I'm not going to tolerate disrespect.
You know, we're not getting paid,
we're not paying ourselves!
- You can't as owners,
complain about not being paid,
you fucking own the place.
They don't have ownership
of this historic building.
Their daddy's not paying for everything.
- Can I tell you something, Gordon?
Jen has called herself
the best cook in town.
She has told us over...
- Stop picking on her!
You have turned every fucking
member of staff against you.
- I used to be really chirpy and happy,
and I can't even smile anymore.
- It's not about you.
- Yeah and I can't even motivate myself
to do my projects anymore.
- Again, just listen to both of you!
- Kill me, kill me, kill me.
- You're only as good as
the team underneath you.
Whether you're here three
months a fucking year
or three hours a day, it doesn't matter.
- Yeah, yeah.
(dramatic music)
- Grow up!
- [Gordon] People have
heard that I'm in Pipestone,
Minnesota's Calumet Inn.
- I wonder if you have any openings?
- Ah, yes.
- [Gordon] And the hotel is
starting to fill up with guests.
- Look at the hole in the door.
- [Gordon] I feel sorry for all of them.
- The sheets are kind of dirty there.
- The wallpaper's hideous.
- Well, the first time my pasta was burnt,
I purposely got the same thing
to see if it was any better, and it's not.
- Very sorry about the wait.
- Where am I?
Oh my God, oh sorry.
- Jesus, you all right?
Would you like some help?
- No, I got it, thank you.
- How many tables have
you got left to serve?
- At least two, three, four, five, yeah,
it looks like.
- Five?
The size of the menu, two
cooks behind the line,
I mean...
- Ridiculous.
- I don't get it.
I mean, honestly, I don't
know how any standard
could be kept, I don't get it.
- [Narrator] With the place this busy,
it should be all hands
on deck, but it's not.
- Where's Rina?
- I think she's in the office.
- No, she's not there.
(Rina sobbing)
Fucking hell, the place is massive.
- [Rina] I want to volunteer,
I want to help people,
I want to just do good things.
- Rina, are you up here?
You okay?
- Yeah.
Hi.
- Can I come in?
- Yeah.
- Wow.
Is this your bedroom?
- Hi.
- This is my mom.
- You're Rina's mum, great to meet you.
- [Rita] Pleased to meet you.
- Your first name is?
- Rita.
Are you okay?
- I'm okay.
- But you look like you've
been crying for the last hour.
- I just didn't feel like
being around people right now,
I guess.
- Rita, does she always run
away when things get hard?
- Yeah.
- What's become very obvious,
is the lack of commitment.
- I feel like we should
have purchased a duplex
or something like that.
- It's a bit late to think that now.
- I just can't seem to get
up and do what I have to do.
- Are you capable of
holding the reins here?
- I want to start taking
control, but I need room to grow,
I need space for me to take charge.
- You need to get a grip.
How about getting changed
and coming downstairs and
just facing the music.
- I can do that.
- Thank you.
- While Rina's been upstairs
crying about nothing,
her guests downstairs have
every reason to be upset.
- How was your chicken?
- It was really dry.
It was kind of,
honestly one of the driest
chicken burgers I've ever had.
- She can bring the check, I'll be happy.
- This place is a train wreck.
- All right and the
coffee's complimentary.
- Oh, that's wonderful.
- And they will bring you
up a pot to your room.
- Thank you very much.
- You're welcome.
- Vanda and Rina might not treat
her like a general manager,
but Mandy sure works like one.
Can we just have a little word
down at the end of the
dining room together,
two minutes.
- I want to tell Gordon
if things don't change
nobody's going to be here,
the Calumet will close.
- You strike me as the owner,
because you are so busy.
Every time I see you,
you're running in the bar,
in the lounge, in the
reception, in the kitchen.
- I hate unhappy customers, I hate that.
- I can see how much it means to you.
The two owners, do they know
that you can run this place?
- No, we are all incompetent to them.
- Wow, what frustrates you
most about the two sisters?
- Vanda is a micromanager,
she's very cynical.
She doesn't even get up off
her ass and help if it's busy,
she doesn't care.
Well, this is what makes
my house payment, I do.
And Rina is a pansy, I can't stand her.
- What is Rina good at doing?
- Cry.
- No.
Are they qualified to run this business?
- No, they should go out and
work in the real world first.
- And the rest of the staff,
your team that work under you,
there is so much bitterness
towards the owners,
has this been building up?
- People are about to explode.
The biggest problem at the
hotel is the ownership.
Who we're supposed to respect,
ultimately doesn't respect us.
And I think that makes people
really not want to be a part of this team.
- The only shining light in
this building right now, is you.
Because if you weren't
here, they'd be fucked.
Thank you.
- All right.
- Thank you, folks.
- Thank you.
- Goodnight.
- [Gordon] I don't think
Vanda and Rina have a clue
about how much they've
really upset their staff,
where their absences and
their high-handed behaviour.
I need to get the staff
and the owners in one room
and try to get them to communicate.
Okay, when was the last time
all of you had a meeting?
- When we first purchased this place.
- So nine months ago.
- Uh-huh.
- We're just so burnt out, Gordon.
- So are we.
- First of all you guys,
I think you guys need to understand,
that we live like in four corner walls
and we have no escape, we're living...
- Nobody made you stay and live here.
- You know what?
I think we know what the problem is.
We stepped in their territory
and they cannot let go of their ego.
- Here's the problem, if
you all fucking got to work,
I wouldn't be so fucking mad all the time.
I know one thing, that I
come to work and I do my job,
where the fuck are you?
- Mandy, what kind of effect
does it have on the team,
when you can't get a
word from your owners?
- It's really annoying.
It's passive aggressive behaviour.
It makes people just very, you know,
they don't want to talk to you then, fine,
you don't want to talk to
us, we want to talk to you.
- There's attitude, but when
we do, there's attitude.
- First of all, that shit
starts with you two then.
- See, that's fine, no emotion.
- I'm just, I want
people who are committed.
- Committed?
Fuck you, I've been here
for three and a half years,
I've done everything from
bar tending the fucking pub,
to housekeeping, to
front desk, to serving.
- We want to know that
you're going to be here,
that's the thing
- Oh, fuck off, I'm fucking done.
I'm fucking done, fuck off.
Committed, you stupid
bitch, you just got here.
I work 65 fucking hours a week,
sometimes 70 and I have two fucking kids,
I'm a single fucking mom.
- It feels like I'm in a
woman's fucking prison.
- I'm leaving, I'm done.
- [Gordon] I'm trying to save Pipestone,
Minnesota's Calumet Inn, but Mandy,
the general manager of three years...
The only shining light in this
building right now is you.
- Oh, fuck off!
- [Gordon] Has just quit her job.
- I'm fucking done, fuck off.
Committed, you stupid
bitch, you just got here.
(dramatic music)
- I know a lot of people
feel that if Mandy's gone,
I'm gone, I'm gone, I'm gone, I'm gone.
I mean, this is getting real ugly.
- Our general manager has just walked out.
- Do you know what the funny thing is?
- No, no, no, listen, it's not funny,
that girl dedicated her life,
to keeping you in a hotel.
Have you ever employed one
single member of staff?
- Like she even worked a day in her life.
- How could you say that, Jen?
- You can't say that,
you don't know me at all.
- If you were here for
two seconds, you'd know
I've been running my ass
off for three fucking days.
- You guys don't see me do
these things, but I do them,
but you guys don't see it.
You don't know the life
behind all, you have no clue.
(all girls shouting)
- For fuck's sake.
One of you step up.
If you were my daughters,
I'd kick you out.
You can laugh all you fucking want,
I'm not your father.
But what I do know is, you
don't fucking deserve this.
Thank you for the first
meeting in nine months.
- I thought Gordon was
going to be nice to me.
- That was extraordinary,
the only person who actually
cared about this place,
Mandy, the general manager, has gone.
Those daughters are absolutely screwed.
(birds tweeting)
- [Gordon] I had a dreadful sleep,
I need to get some exercise,
to burn off some of the tension
from all that screaming last night.
- Hi, good morning, darling.
- Hi, how are you?
- I'm well thanks, how are you?
- I'm good.
- God, it was a rough night, that one.
I want to go to the gym and
do some workout and swim.
- Okay.
- What floor is it on?
- It's not, we don't
have one in the building.
There's one right over there.
Yeah.
- Over where?
- Right over here, like down this street,
it's like a rec centre.
- So I have to go out of the hotel?
Fuck this, no chance!
This is all ridiculous, sod that.
A hotel this size, with no gym on site,
is just another example of Vanda and Rina
forgetting who's most
important around here.
- Hey, Gordon.
- Good morning.
Let's have a little catch up.
Hopefully today, I can
finally get through to them.
Good morning.
These are some of your guests.
All I'd like to hear, is just
nothing but the plain truth.
And give these owners an insight
to what you're paying for.
Sir, let's start with you.
- I'll tell you the room
was very disappointing.
We look for historic
buildings when we go places,
and this was just a shame.
It was like it was neglected.
- It was run down down to the ground,
before we purchased this place.
- [Vanda] For about 10 years.
- [Rina] For 10 years.
- You've got to stop blaming people.
Madam, please,
can you give us an insight
to your experience.
- Well, when we came in, we
actually came in the back way.
This dark hallway, where there's...
- It's like a dungeon.
- Yeah, a dungeon.
- Yeah, I entered that way.
I mean, it was like coming
through an entrance to a prison.
- Yeah.
- Madam, please.
- I have severe asthma and allergies,
dusting the top of the doorways,
and it's just caked in white dust.
- Oh, my God.
- It went beyond a comfort issue,
this went to a health hazard issue.
I was literally worried
about my fiance's safety.
And the last thing this place needs
is some kind of, you know,
wrongful death liability.
- Oh, gosh.
- Would any of you come back to stay here?
- Absolutely not.
- Not one of you?
Thank you.
- Thank you, guys.
- Take care, thank you, I'm so sorry.
The complaints from
guests are obvious things
that a hotel owner
should be taking care of,
but these girls haven't got
a clue, or a general manager.
Do you honestly think
that you are capable
of running this hotel?
- When I want something bad enough,
and when I have my mind up to it,
I always, I always accomplish.
- At 32 years of age,
tell me one thing that you've
accomplished in your life,
on your own.
- I worked when I was
14 at a fast food place.
- Are you serious?
You want me to get impressed with that?
- No, no, but I'm just saying...
- Vanda, do you honestly think
that you and your big sister
are capable of running this hotel?
- I want to say yes, but
just my head says, no.
(Rina bursting into tears)
- I feel like a knife has
just been run into my heart,
but I can run this place by myself.
- You have to be honest with yourself.
- I think we can make it
with the positive
reinforcement that I use.
- Oh, God!
- I would shit myself,
asking you to run my dog up
the hill, let alone a hotel.
(dramatic music)
- [Narrator] Pipestone,
Minnesota's Calumet Inn,
is in a dreadful state.
The food is awful...
- It is absolutely, fucking disgusting.
- Oh, gross!
- And the rooms are just as bad.
- Oh, that's mouldy.
- Oh, man.
- And the owners are totally useless.
I would shit myself
asking you to run my dog up
the hill, let alone a hotel.
There's only one person
that could help me save this place...
Unless I can convince Mandy to come back
and take on the role as a general manager.
Then quite frankly, Rina
and Vanda are screwed.
And I'll tell them to
close the hotel tonight.
(knocking) Hi, darling,
have you got two minutes?
You had every right to walk out,
how are you feeling?
- Bitter, but I'm okay.
- Life's too short.
- I'll get over it.
- Watching the way you work,
and the way you feel for the place,
and how much energy you
put in to that hotel,
you are a bloody good general manager.
- Thank you.
- You know your job.
- If you were given the
absolute control of that place,
to run it,
would you come back?
- Hm, that's tough.
I just, I don't like them.
- I know.
- And after everything that's been said,
I don't, I mean, I, I don't know.
I just, I don't know.
- If I was Mandy, I don't
know what I'd do either.
Take care and please, think about it.
I really don't know what's
going to happen at this hotel.
Are Rina and Vanda capable of change?
Do they have it in them,
to shoulder the
responsibility of this hotel?
I need to have a proper
chat with their mum.
(Gordon knocking)
- Yeah?
- Hello?
- Come in.
Hi.
- It smells incredible up there.
- Come on in.
- What are you cooking?
- I am cooking green curry.
- It smells incredible.
And who's whose recipes are these?
- Oh, I just make up.
- Do you mind if I have a little taste?
- Yup, sure.
A little bit spicy, maybe?
- No, that's perfect.
That is absolutely perfect, my God, hmm.
- Wow, that is delicious,
that's the tastiest food I've
eaten, since I've been here.
- Thank you.
- Amazing, you're a very, very good cook.
How many times a week do
you cook for your daughters?
- Seven days a week. (laughing)
- Those babies need to grow up.
- Yeah, I know that.
I spoil them.
- When was the last time you had a break?
- Not really, not at all.
Sometimes I get frustrated, I tell them,
you need to do the work now by yourself.
- [Gordon] Rina and
Vanda treat their mother
as their personal chef,
so she's stuck at the hotel,
working seven days a week.
It's time the girls grew up.
I wanted to talk to all four
of you, to shed some light.
If you want to teach your
daughters responsibility,
like I have to as a father
with three daughters,
I'd buy them a fucking goldfish,
not a hotel.
Jim, do you want to be here?
- I wouldn't want to stay
here on a permanent basis.
- Rita?
- No.
Vanda, do you want to be here?
- No, I don't.
- Rina?
- I'm not happy here.
I'm not, I'll be honest.
- That's not what I'm asking, my darling.
I'm asking you, do you want to be here?
- No.
- I don't think you do either.
You need to go back to Minneapolis,
you need to get into the city.
That's what you need to do.
- Thank you, that's all I want. (crying)
I want that so bad, thank you.
I'm sorry, this is just something
I've been afraid to say.
- [Gordon] Each one of you
are actually trapped inside this hotel.
- What do we do?
- I would like you to decide as a family.
Do you want a proper general manager
to run the hotel for you,
or do you want to sell
it, or shut it down?
The decision is yours.
(dramatic music)
- [Narrator] Coming up,
the family has come to a decision
about whether to close the doors
of this historic Calumet Inn.
- I'm very sorry...
(electrical interference)
- [Narrator] The owners of Pipestone,
Minnesota's historic Calumet Inn,
have made a decision, about
whether to shut the hotel down,
sell it, or get a proper general
manager to run it for them.
- I have no idea what's
going to happen, I'm nervous.
I'm very sorry for the way that
you guys have been treated.
- And we have made a decision here
that will turn this place around.
And that means us stepping
out of the picture.
- Tomorrow, there is going to
be a new general manager here.
Somebody actually in charge,
someone with the
authority from the owners,
to run this place on their behalf.
Stay there, let me get
them for you, please.
Ladies and gentlemen,
let me introduce you to the
Calumet's new general manager.
Good to see you, say hello to your team.
- After talking with Gordon, I realised,
everybody that works there,
is like my second family.
I care too much about the Calumet,
to allow the doors to be closed.
- I'm pleased you're back.
You are an asset to this hotel.
These two young girls
are leaving this hotel.
- This is exactly what
I've wanted all along.
I've always wanted a true
general manager to run the place,
and I would come here on the weekends,
to help out with the decorations.
- They know that it's not healthy.
They know they can't continue.
- Oh, I'm beyond ready to give Mandy,
you know, full reins and full
control as general manager.
I have full faith in her.
She's a very powerful, very
competent, very strong lady.
- Tomorrow, we are relaunching this hotel
under new management
and there are going to
be a lot of changes.
I want all of you to get out
of here and get some rest,
because tomorrow is one hell of a day.
- Yeah.
- Thank you.
- Today, everyone wins,
as the family is free to leave Pipestone,
the staff get a proper leader,
and Mandy gets the
freedom to be in charge.
And overnight, the interior
of this historic building
has got what it has long deserved too,
a wonderful transformation.
- Good morning.
- Hi.
- Welcome, to the new Calumet Inn.
This is incredibly historic
and a very special hotel,
but now it's somewhere,
where guests are going to be
incredibly well looked after.
Come with me, let's go.
Come on, ladies.
- Oh, my God!
- Holy macaroni!
(girls squealing in delight)
- I take it, you like it?
- I love it!
- Love it!
- Gone is that disgusting wallpaper,
now we have a stunning, bright,
colourful paint of Kelly Green.
A new mattress, new box frame,
new linen, and new cushions,
and a bed to absolutely disappear in.
Notice how bright it is?
Let's try and keep the
bulbs in the fixtures, Jim,
especially in that rear entrance tunnel.
(everyone laughing)
- Gone is that dreadful
rail in the corner,
we replaced that with a
wonderful tall wardrobe,
how nice is that?
- Oh, yeah.
- Beforehand, the jacuzzi looked awkward,
now we framed the bathtub
with these beautiful custom drapes.
So you can highlight the fact
that it's a stunning jacuzzi,
but we've given it his own space.
- I'm blown away, I mean, you know,
guests are actually going to be happy
to spend their honeymoons here,
and we're going to be proud
to actually show this room.
- This one is really special, I mean,
yeah, let's say a new edition.
Please, welcome to my
favourite room, jump in there.
Let's go.
(everyone screaming in delight)
Gone is the bedroom,
you now have a fabulous,
unique fitness centre.
(everyone clapping)
Where guests, like myself,
do not have to walk a hundred metres.
- This room is actually what
everybody needs in here.
When people are stressed out,
when they want to kill each other,
they could just go in
there, and just relax.
- Can we take a seat, please?
I've got something
that is really going to
put this hotel on the map.
The food before,
lacked the heart you would
get from home cooking.
It turns out, the answer
was right under our noses.
Rita, we've adapted your cooking style,
Rita's Thai specials.
- Wow.
- Aw!
- Rita, when I tasted your
food upstairs my darling,
I was blown away.
Now the legacy is going to continue,
a stunning beef satay,
and then a delicious green chicken curry,
and a phenomenal pad Thai.
Thank you ladies, come on, dig in.
Dig in, dig in.
- [Rina] This is real pad Thai.
- Rita, what do you think, my darling?
- Excellent.
- Yeah?
- Yup.
I am very excited to see
my Thai food on the menu.
It tastes very good, yes.
Thank you, thank you so much.
(everyone clapping)
- Okay, are we ready?
- Guys, all good?
- I'm ready.
- Ready to go?
Yeah, brilliant.
- [Narrator] With a rejuvenated energy,
the staff are ready for the first night
of the Calumet's new life.
- I'm well.
- Welcome to the Calumet Inn,
my name's Mandy, general manager.
- How are we doing tonight?
- We're doing very well.
- All right, we have a new menu.
- First ticket, Jen, good luck.
- Thank you.
- [Gordon] You can do this.
- Oh, this is a whole
new level of Thai food.
It's fresh and I'm really
excited about that,
it's something I've always wanted to do.
- And for the first time,
parents Jim and Rita,
are enjoying their investment,
instead of having to work at it.
- Much better, hey, Jim?
- 1,000% better.
Keep up a good work.
- Yeah, I will. (laughing)
- [Gordon] When Mandy agreed to return,
it was on the condition
that Rina and Vanda
would be out of the picture.
Unfortunately, these sisters
can't stop interfering.
- Are we good?
Excellent.
- And were you still working on that,
or would you like me to take?
Okay, all right, enjoy.
- Ooh, how are you doing tonight?
Do you have a wine list?
I can go grab you one.
Oh, my gosh, I had...
They remade our wine list, I had no idea.
- The hotel can't afford
to lose Mandy again.
With so much at stake,
I've got to step in.
What are you doing?
- I am meeting and greeting the guests.
- What are you doing?
- Hi, I'm helping out.
- Helping out?
Let me just tell you something.
You swanning around,
looking like you're
here to take the cream,
because you want to
meet-and-greet the guests.
You've actually done fuck all tonight.
- What am I supposed to do?
- Get back upstairs and pack, now!
(electrical interference)
- [Gordon] The Calumet's
relaunch is going well.
And the team are handling more guests
than the hotel has seen in years.
- Two rib eyes and a spare rib, I got it.
- [Gordon] The guests are
loving the new rooms upstairs.
- Definitely like the colour,
the green really makes it bright.
- It's a nice mix of old and new.
- Yeah.
- Hey, yeah, I would come back here.
- [Gordon] And I'm really pleased
to see Mandy stepping up and
taking control of the team,
as the general manager.
- You have to communicate with the kitchen
a little bit better.
- [Gordon] There's just
one last detail to address,
Rina and Vanda need to hit the road.
- Hello?
- Vanda, are you finished packing yet?
The taxi is on its way.
- I'm going!
- Okay, ladies, taxi is here.
Hey, listen, safe travels
and good luck, okay?
- Thank you.
- A little present for you,
to teach you responsibility
back in Minneapolis.
(girls squealing)
Please.
- Oh, dear Lord.
- Oh, thank you.
- Now, look after them.
Once you've got the hang
of looking after those,
then we can step up to a cat.
- Okay.
- Once the cat's fine,
then we go up to a dog.
- It'll be fine.
- Look after those fish, good night.
- I'm going to go off
and pursue my dreams.
I'm going to travel and
continue onwards into my 30s
a happy person, not miserable.
- The goldfish!
Don't drop it.
- I will not drop the gold fish.
- I'm going back to Minneapolis
but I'm really excited
to feel free to let out my creativity
and show the world what I'm capable of.
Look, one is bigger, and one is smaller,
the bigger one can be Rina,
the little one can be Vanda.
- What a week!
When I first arrived, they
were two spoiled brats,
that were playing at running a hotel.
The change has been extraordinary.
The key to the turnaround
was in Mandy coming back,
and standing strong as a
proper general manager.
This time it's a proper goodbye,
and I cannot wait to
come back and see you.
- Awesome.
- I believe in you.
You already have made a big
difference, good luck with it.
- Thanks.
- Thank you.
- Well done.
- Thank you so much.
- Good night, darling.
- I feel like a whole new person.
I am ready to just go full bore with this.
Thank you so much, Gordon,
for giving me my job back,
and for believing in me.
- I do hope those goldfish survive,
it's 50/50. (chuckling)
- [Female] One potato, two potato.
- [Rina] I thought Gordon
was going to be nice to me.